[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: Now simple
little animations, as I mentioned,
they accentuate tasks and states.
Now research has shown that humans
are absolute suckers for movement.
Which makes sense, because it meant
life or death for our ancestors.
>> Rachel Nabors: So yeah,
this was a research paper in 2010.
Where basically the researcher found out
that people, basically, they're really,
their attention is captured by
increasing the animacy of objects.
Animacy here not being a word
you'll find in dictionaries.
But it means to increase the aliveness of
an object, or how alive it appears to be.
Now humans attention can be
immediately grabbed by two things,
one of them is color and
the other is motion.
>> Rachel Nabors: This goes to reason that
if you want someone to notice something,
you should make it bright and
jiggly, right?
Well our ancestors,
they were always on the lookout for
sudden movements of prey and predator.
So it would makes sense that bright
colors indicate poison or food,
and jiggly things equal a lion
in the bush or something to eat.
But you know,
it could also be a great way to get people
to click on your free screen savers ad.
Wonderful, of course any good
information can be abused.
So how do we use it responsibly?
Well there's another
thing to keep in mind,
all humans have something
called a cone a vision.
When you're ever looking at something for
a long time, like a wall,
if you stare at this for
a long time, you'll notice that everything
around the edges starts to gray out.
That's because,
when you're walking through space,
your eyes are constantly moving in
something called saccade movement.
You're constantly looking at that thing
over there and that thing there, and it's
like your brain is refreshing its mental
model of where everything is in reality.
So that, look,
when you start studying the human
visual system, it gets pretty intense.
You start realizing that
what we perceive as vision,
is really sort of like an emulation,
like a game we're all living in.
That it's a second world that you
are moving in through, by interfacing your
brain with your muscles and your inputs,
and it gets really interesting.
But to keep this model that we're living
in going, our eyes are constantly moving
around subconsciously, gathering
information and updating the model.
If you stare one one direction for
too long it'll become apparent just how
limited your human eye actually is.
So in the center, the center of your
vision is very detailed and very accurate.
You can only really see the features on
my face when you're looking at my face.
When you're looking at the screen,
you do not see the features on my face.
You cannot tell if I have glasses
on in some cases or not, or
even perhaps what my expression is.
Although there is evidence that indicates
people are better perceiving perception,
perceiving people's facial motions
in their peripheral vision,
in the outer cone of vision.
One of the reasons that I've heard
that the Mona Lisa looks like she's
smiling when you look away from her,
but then when you look at her
she doesn't look like she's smiling, might
be due to being better able to perceive
the tonal values in our peripheral vision
than we are with our central vision.
So tonal values like human, what is it,
luminance, yes, and motion, our peripheral
vision is very sensitive to those things.
However, we're more sensitive to
color in the center of our vision.
So it stands to reason that
you should try, if you can
kinda guesstimate where people will be
looking at a page on a page, to use things
that don't distract too much from their
experience, unless it's super important.
So for instance, all right,
I gotta look at the screen now for
this one.
So here we have a little
alert that shows up.
And we might do that using a fade,
because this isn't the center of vision.
We don't need to move it around.
We don't need to make it too bright, or
too loud, or increase its visual weight.
A fade is appropriate,
changing its color or
its density as it were, would probably
be enough to get people's attention.
However, if we're out
there in the periphery,
we might need to give
something a little bounce.
When I might need to move it around a
little bit to capture people's attention.
That might be why we see sidebars bouncing
so much in those terrible old ads.
Because if you make it bright and
bouncy, nobody can help but
notice it adds a distraction.
So keep this in mind when you
were animating your interface.
For instance that side bar that I
animated, it's kind of a lot of movement.
But I'm assuming that people
are intending for that to happen and
thus are expecting it to happen.
But if I wanted it to be more of an aside,
less interrupting,
I might just have faded that out,
instead of bouncing it off like that.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
it's important to remember that motion and
opacity are to animation, what font
sizes and weight are to typography.
That is to say, you don't want to make
everything 48 pixels tall, and bold,
and italic with an underline,
and all those good things.
When everything vies for tension and
users don't know what's to focus on.
So you want to be judicious
in your use of animations.
And try to limit yourself to just what
is necessary to get your point across.
And if you want to do more than that,
be able to justify it.